h63922
s 00003/00003/00166
d D 1.3 98/07/16 09:09:54 clyde 3 2
c Update path tokens
e
s 00001/00001/00168
d D 1.2 98/07/08 17:41:04 clyde 2 1
c  Use path tokens
e
s 00169/00000/00000
d D 1.1 98/06/24 16:47:18 clyde 1 0
c date and time created 98/06/24 16:47:18 by clyde
e
u
U
f e 0
t
T
I 1
'\"
'\" Copyright 1998, The University of Texas at Austin ("U. T. Austin").
'\" All rights reserved.
'\"
'\" By using this software the USER indicates that he or she has read,
'\" understood and will comply with the following:
'\"
'\" U. T. Austin hereby grants USER permission to use, copy, modify, and
'\" distribute this software and its documentation for any purpose and
'\" without fee, provided that:
'\"
'\" 1. the above copyright notice appears in all copies of the software
'\"    and its documentation, or portions thereof, and 
'\" 2. a full copy of this notice is included with the software and its
'\"    documentation, or portions thereof, and 
'\" 3. neither the software nor its documentation, nor portions thereof,
'\"    is sold for profit. Any commercial sale or license of this software,
'\"    copies of the software, its associated documentation and/or
'\"    modifications of either is strictly prohibited without the prior
'\"    consent of U. T. Austin. 
'\" 
'\" Title to copyright to this software and its associated documentation
'\" shall at all times remain with U. T. Austin. No right is granted to
'\" use in advertising, publicity or otherwise any trademark, service
'\" mark, or the name of U. T. Austin.
'\" 
'\" This software and any associated documentation are provided "as is,"
'\" and U. T. AUSTIN MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES, EXPRESSED OR
'\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING THOSE OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
'\" PURPOSE, OR THAT USE OF THE SOFTWARE, MODIFICATIONS, OR ASSOCIATED
'\" DOCUMENTATION WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS, TRADEMARKS OR
'\" OTHER INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS OF A THIRD PARTY. U. T. Austin, The
'\" University of Texas System, its Regents, officers, and employees shall
'\" not be liable under any circumstances for any direct, indirect, special,
'\" incidental, or consequential damages with respect to any claim by USER
'\" or any third party on account of or arising from the use, or inability
'\" to use, this software or its associated documentation, even if U. T.
'\" Austin has been advised of the possibility of those damages.
'\" 
'\" Submit commercialization requests to: Office of the Executive Vice
'\" President and Provost, U. T. Austin, 201 Main Bldg., Austin, Texas,
'\" 78712, ATTN: Technology Licensing Specialist.
'\"
'\" %W% %G% (cc.utexas.edu)
'\"
.TH makedict 1
.SH NAME
makedict \- build npasswd dictionaries
.br
packer \- pack hashed dictionary files
.br
unpacker \- unpack hashed dictionary files
.SH SYNOPSIS
D 2
\fInpasswd-lib\fP/\fBmakedict\fP
E 2
I 2
D 3
@NPASSWD-LIB@/\fBmakedict\fP
E 3
I 3
@NPASSWD-UTIL@/\fBmakedict\fP
E 3
E 2
.BI \-\^o " output"
[
.BI \-\^m " source"
] [
.BI \-\^T " temp"
] 
words ... words
.br
D 3
\fInpasswd-lib\fP/\fBpacker\fP dictionary-name
E 3
I 3
@NPASSWD-UTIL@/\fBpacker\fP dictionary-name
E 3
.br
D 3
\fInpasswd-lib\fP/\fBunpacker\fP dictionary-name
E 3
I 3
@NPASSWD-UTIL@/\fBunpacker\fP dictionary-name
E 3
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Makedict
builds the hashed dictionaries used by
.BR npasswd .
The dictionary hash files are built from \fIword lists\fP, which
are text files with one word per line.
.PP
Three hashed files are created with the suffixes \fB.hwm\fP, \fB.pwd\fP, and \fB.pwi\fP .
.PP
.B Packer
is a low-level utility which reads words (one per line) from standard
input and packs them into hash files.
.B Makedict
is a smart front-end to 
.BR packer ,
and is the preferred tool for dictionary building.
.PP
.B Unpacker
dumps dictionary hashes to standard output, one word per line.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
Options for
.BR makedict .
.TP
.BI \-\^o " output"
Create the dictionary 
.BR output .
.TP
.BI \-\^m " source"
Merge in words in dictionary
.BR source .
.TP
.BI \-\^T " temp"
Use 
.B temp
as the temporary directory for sorting.  Use this option if the default
temporary directory used by
.IR sort (1)
is small.
.TP
.I words ... words
Word lists. Compressed files (ending with \fB.Z\fP or \fB.gz\fP) can be used.
.PP
.B Packer
and 
.B unpacker
take one argument \- the name of the dictionary file to pack or unpack.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To make the dictionary 'my-dict':
.RS
.nf
makedict -o my-dict word-list-1 ... word-list-n
.fi
.sp
Will produce the files \fBmy-dict.pwd\fP,
\fBmy-dict.pwi\fP and \fBmy-dict.hwm\fP.
.RE
.PP
To add words to an existing dictionary:
.RS
.nf
makedict -o existing-dict -m existing-dict word-list-1 ... word-list-n
.fi
.RE
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 5
Missing option to -o
No output file was specified.
.TP 5
Missing option to -T
No temporary directory was specified.
.TP 5
Missing option to -m
No merge dictionary was specified.
.TP 5
Empty or missing hash file \fIname\fP
One of the dictionary hash files came up empty, either because the
sources were empty or a filesytem error occurred.
.SH BUGS
The input to
.B packer
.B must
.B be
.BR sorted ,
else the result hash files will be faulty.  Use 
.B makedict
instead.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
npasswd(1)
.br
\fINpasswd Reference Manual\fP
.SH AUTHOR
Clyde Hoover
.br
Academic Computing Services and Instructional Technology Services
.br
The University of Texas at Austin
.br
c.hoover@cc.utexas.edu
.br
\(co 1998, The University of Texas at Austin. All rights reserved. 
'\"
'\" End %M%
E 1
