h28480
s 00010/00002/00267
d D 1.7 98/12/10 14:42:50 clyde 7 6
c Add proper explanation of -XI
e
s 00002/00002/00267
d D 1.6 98/10/14 10:45:04 clyde 6 5
c Change Solaris 2 option list
e
s 00011/00011/00258
d D 1.5 98/07/20 16:12:19 clyde 5 4
c Spell check
e
s 00005/00005/00264
d D 1.4 98/07/16 09:07:36 clyde 4 3
c Change path tokens
e
s 00020/00019/00249
d D 1.3 98/07/08 17:40:54 clyde 3 2
c Use path tokens
e
s 00022/00019/00246
d D 1.2 98/07/02 16:07:14 clyde 2 1
c 1. Add -Xc
c 2. Add debug symbolic names
e
s 00265/00000/00000
d D 1.1 98/06/24 16:47:18 clyde 1 0
c date and time created 98/06/24 16:47:18 by clyde
e
u
U
f e 0
t
T
I 1
'\"
'\" Copyright 1998, The University of Texas at Austin ("U. T. Austin").
'\" All rights reserved.
'\"
'\" By using this software the USER indicates that he or she has read,
'\" understood and will comply with the following:
'\"
'\" U. T. Austin hereby grants USER permission to use, copy, modify, and
'\" distribute this software and its documentation for any purpose and
'\" without fee, provided that:
'\"
'\" 1. the above copyright notice appears in all copies of the software
'\"    and its documentation, or portions thereof, and 
'\" 2. a full copy of this notice is included with the software and its
'\"    documentation, or portions thereof, and 
'\" 3. neither the software nor its documentation, nor portions thereof,
'\"    is sold for profit. Any commercial sale or license of this software,
'\"    copies of the software, its associated documentation and/or
'\"    modifications of either is strictly prohibited without the prior
'\"    consent of U. T. Austin. 
'\" 
'\" Title to copyright to this software and its associated documentation
'\" shall at all times remain with U. T. Austin. No right is granted to
'\" use in advertising, publicity or otherwise any trademark, service
'\" mark, or the name of U. T. Austin.
'\" 
'\" This software and any associated documentation are provided "as is,"
'\" and U. T. AUSTIN MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES, EXPRESSED OR
'\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING THOSE OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
'\" PURPOSE, OR THAT USE OF THE SOFTWARE, MODIFICATIONS, OR ASSOCIATED
'\" DOCUMENTATION WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS, TRADEMARKS OR
'\" OTHER INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS OF A THIRD PARTY. U. T. Austin, The
'\" University of Texas System, its Regents, officers, and employees shall
'\" not be liable under any circumstances for any direct, indirect, special,
'\" incidental, or consequential damages with respect to any claim by USER
'\" or any third party on account of or arising from the use, or inability
'\" to use, this software or its associated documentation, even if U. T.
'\" Austin has been advised of the possibility of those damages.
'\" 
'\" Submit commercialization requests to: Office of the Executive Vice
'\" President and Provost, U. T. Austin, 201 Main Bldg., Austin, Texas,
'\" 78712, ATTN: Technology Licensing Specialist.
'\"
'\" %W% %G% (cc.utexas.edu)
'\"
.TH npasswd 1
.SH NAME
npasswd \- change login password, shell or finger information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B npasswd
[
.I "platform options"
] [
.B \-\^X
.I options
] [ username ]
.br
.B chfn
[
.I "platform options"
] [
.B \-\^X
.I options
] [ username ]
.br
.B chsh
[
.I "platform options"
] [
.B \-\^X
.I options
] [ username ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Npasswd
changes the login password, login shell or finger information for a user.
It is designed to supplement or replace the standard password change
programs 
.BR passwd , 
.B chfn
and
.BR chsh .
.PP
.B Npasswd
addresses some common deficiencies of standard
D 5
password change programs.  It supportrs local passwd
E 5
I 5
password change programs.  It supports local passwd
E 5
(and shadow) files, NIS maps, and enhanced security shadow databases
for HP-UX and Digital Unix (aka OSF/1).
.PP
New passwords are subjected to a series of 
stringent guessability checks to decrease the chance of users
choosing vulnerable passwords.
.PP
When called as "\fBchfn\fP",
.B npasswd
D 5
changes the finger information associated with your username or the specified
username.  
E 5
I 5
changes the finger information associated with your user name or the specified
user name.  
E 5
.PP
When called as "\fBchsh\fP",
.B npasswd
D 5
changes the login shell of your username or the specified username.  
E 5
I 5
changes the login shell of your user name or the specified user name.  
E 5
.PP
Only the super-user can change the password, finger information or shell
of another user.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
Every version of 
.B passwd
supports a different set of command line options.
.B Npasswd
supports a subset of these for a few platforms.
It attempts to recognize the other vendor-specific options and defer to
the vendor-supplied program to handle them.
This list may be incomplete.
.SH "PLATFORM OPTIONS - SunOS 4"
.PP
D 5
The following options are implimented:
E 5
I 5
The following options are implemented:
E 5
.RS
\fB \-\^d \-\^e \-\^n \-\^x\fP
.RE
.PP
The following options are deferred to the vendor programs:
.RS
\fB \-\^a \fP
.RE
.PP
The following options are ignored:
.RS
\fB \-\^F \-\^l \-\^y \fP
.RE
.SH "PLATFORM OPTIONS - Solaris 2"
.PP
D 5
The following options are implimented:
E 5
I 5
The following options are implemented:
E 5
.RS
D 6
\fB \-\^e \-\^g \fP
E 6
I 6
\fB \-\^e \-\^g \-\^r\fP
E 6
.RE
.PP
The following options are deferred to the vendor programs:
.RS
D 6
\fB \-\^a \-\^d \-\^h \-\^l \-\^n \-\^w \-\^r \-\^s \-\^x \fP
E 6
I 6
\fB \-\^a \-\^d \-\^h \-\^l \-\^n \-\^w \-\^s \-\^x \fP
E 6
.RE
.PP
The following options are ignored:
.RS
\fB \-\^D\fP
.RE
.SH "PLATFORM OPTIONS - HPUX"
.PP
D 5
The following options are implimented:
E 5
I 5
The following options are implemented:
E 5
.RS
\fB \-\^d \-\^e \-\^n \-\^x \fP
.RE
.SH "PLATFORM OPTIONS - Digital UNIX"
.PP
D 5
The following options are implimented:
E 5
I 5
The following options are implemented:
E 5
.RS
\fB \-\^f \-\^s \fP
.RE
.SH "PLATFORM OPTIONS - AIX"
.PP
D 5
The following options are implimented:
E 5
I 5
The following options are implemented:
E 5
.RS
\fB \-\^f \-\^s \fP
.RE
.SH "OPTIONS FOR ALL PLATFORMS"
.TP 10
I 2
.BI \-\^Xc
Process the configuration file, output the settings and exit.
.TP 10
E 2
.BI \-\^XC cf
Verify the correctness of the configuration file
.IR cf .
Exit status is 0 if file was ok, 1 if not. 
.TP 10
.BI \-\^XD N
Set internal debugging level to N.
D 2
This option is restricted to root.
E 2
I 2
This option may be restricted to root.
E 2
.sp
D 2
Debug levels are:
E 2
I 2
D 3
Debug levels may be specified with symbolic or numeric values:
E 3
I 3
Debug levels are:
E 3
E 2
.RS
.TP 5
D 2
0
None (default).
E 2
I 2
D 3
none	(0)
E 3
I 3
none
E 3
None.
E 2
.TP 5
D 2
1
E 2
I 2
D 3
verbose	(1)
E 3
I 3
verbose
E 3
E 2
Mild verbosity.
.TP 5
D 2
2
Trace lookup of user info.
E 2
I 2
D 3
lookup	(2)
E 3
I 3
lookup
E 3
Trace user lookup.
E 2
.TP 5
D 2
3
Trace updating of user info.
E 2
I 2
D 3
update	(3)
E 3
I 3
update
E 3
Trace user updating.
E 2
.TP 5
D 2
4
E 2
I 2
D 3
config	(4)
E 3
I 3
config
E 3
E 2
Trace configuration file processing.
.TP 5
D 2
5
Not used.
E 2
I 2
D 3
misc1	(5)
E 3
I 3
misc1
E 3
Reserved.
E 2
.TP 5
D 2
6
Not used.
E 2
I 2
D 3
misc2	(6)
E 3
I 3
misc2
E 3
Reserved.
E 2
.TP 5
D 2
7
Trace new password checking.
E 2
I 2
D 3
pwcheck	(7)
E 3
I 3
pwcheck
E 3
Trace password checking.
E 2
.TP 5
D 2
8
E 2
I 2
D 3
detail	(8)
E 3
I 3
detail
E 3
E 2
More detailed tracing.
.TP 5
D 2
9
Turn on all debugging traces.
E 2
I 2
D 3
all	(9)
E 3
I 3
all
E 3
Turn on all debugging.
E 2
.RE
.TP 10
.B \-\^XF
Suppress new password checking.
This option is restricted to root and should be used very sparingly.
.TP 10
.B \-\^Xf
Change finger information.
.TP 10
.B \-\^XI
D 7
Read passwords from standard input versus using
.BR /dev/tty .
E 7
I 7
Allow standard input to be a file or pipe.
This option can be used thusly:
.RS
.nf
(echo old-password
 echo new-password
 echo new-password) | npasswd -XI ...
.fi
.sp
E 7
This option is restricted to root.
I 7
.RE
E 7
.TP 10
.B \-\^Xs
Change login shell.
.TP 10
.B \-\^XV
Print version and patch level information.
D 3
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.I history_admin
\- password history administration utility
E 3
I 3
.SH FILES
D 4
@NPASSWD-LIB@/npasswd \- The executable
E 4
I 4
@NPASSWD-HOME@/npasswd \- The executable
E 4
E 3
.br
D 3
\fInpasswd-lib\fP/doc/index.html \- Npasswd Reference Manual (HTML format)
.SH "FILES"
\fInpasswd-lib\fP/passwd.conf \- configuration file
E 3
I 3
D 4
@NPASSWD-LIB@/passwd.conf \- Configuration file
E 4
I 4
@NPASSWD-HOME@/passwd.conf \- Configuration file
E 4
E 3
.br
D 3
\fInpasswd-lib\fP/dictionaries \- default password check word lists
E 3
I 3
D 4
@NPASSWD-DICTS@ \- Default dictionary collection
E 4
I 4
@NPASSWD-DICT@ \- Default dictionary collection
E 4
E 3
.br
D 3
\fInpasswd-lib\fP/history \- default password history database
E 3
I 3
@NPASSWD-HIST@ \- Default password history database
.SH "SEE ALSO"
D 4
@NPASSWD-LIB@/history_admin \- password history administration utility
E 4
I 4
@NPASSWD-UTIL@/history_admin \- password history administration utility
E 4
.br
D 4
@NPASSWD-LIB@/doc/index.html \- Npasswd Reference Manual (HTML format)
E 4
I 4
@NPASSWD-DOCS@/index.html \- Npasswd Reference Manual (HTML format)
E 4
E 3
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
D 5
Many and hopefully fairly self-explanitory.
E 5
I 5
Many and hopefully fairly self-explanatory.
E 5
.SH BUGS
A substantial section of the password check code
is very specific to English.
.PP
No attempt has been made to internationalize the program.
.PP
Some platforms (e.g. Sun, Digital Unix) have elaborate security
facilities.  Few of these are used by
.BR npasswd ,
mostly because the APIs are not documented.
.PP
For historical reasons, there is support for two obsolete operating
systems - SunOS 4 and Ultrix 4.
This code will removed from any future revisions.
.SH AUTHOR
Clyde Hoover
.br
Academic Computing Services and Instructional Technology Services
.br
The University of Texas at Austin
.br
c.hoover@cc.utexas.edu
.br
\(co 1998, The University of Texas at Austin. All rights reserved. 
'\"
'\" End %M%
E 1
