'\"
'\" Copyright 1998, The University of Texas at Austin ("U. T. Austin").
'\" All rights reserved.
'\"
'\" By using this software the USER indicates that he or she has read,
'\" understood and will comply with the following:
'\"
'\" U. T. Austin hereby grants USER permission to use, copy, modify, and
'\" distribute this software and its documentation for any purpose and
'\" without fee, provided that:
'\"
'\" 1. the above copyright notice appears in all copies of the software
'\"    and its documentation, or portions thereof, and 
'\" 2. a full copy of this notice is included with the software and its
'\"    documentation, or portions thereof, and 
'\" 3. neither the software nor its documentation, nor portions thereof,
'\"    is sold for profit. Any commercial sale or license of this software,
'\"    copies of the software, its associated documentation and/or
'\"    modifications of either is strictly prohibited without the prior
'\"    consent of U. T. Austin. 
'\" 
'\" Title to copyright to this software and its associated documentation
'\" shall at all times remain with U. T. Austin. No right is granted to
'\" use in advertising, publicity or otherwise any trademark, service
'\" mark, or the name of U. T. Austin.
'\" 
'\" This software and any associated documentation are provided "as is,"
'\" and U. T. AUSTIN MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES, EXPRESSED OR
'\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING THOSE OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
'\" PURPOSE, OR THAT USE OF THE SOFTWARE, MODIFICATIONS, OR ASSOCIATED
'\" DOCUMENTATION WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS, TRADEMARKS OR
'\" OTHER INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS OF A THIRD PARTY. U. T. Austin, The
'\" University of Texas System, its Regents, officers, and employees shall
'\" not be liable under any circumstances for any direct, indirect, special,
'\" incidental, or consequential damages with respect to any claim by USER
'\" or any third party on account of or arising from the use, or inability
'\" to use, this software or its associated documentation, even if U. T.
'\" Austin has been advised of the possibility of those damages.
'\" 
'\" Submit commercialization requests to: Office of the Executive Vice
'\" President and Provost, U. T. Austin, 201 Main Bldg., Austin, Texas,
'\" 78712, ATTN: Technology Licensing Specialist.
'\"
'\" @(#)history_admin.1	1.9 10/15/98 (cc.utexas.edu)
'\"
.TH history_admin 1
.SH NAME
history_admin \- administer password history database
.SH SYNOPSIS
@NPASSWD-UTIL@/history_admin\fR
[
.B \-\^a
.I age
] [
.B \-\^c
.I file
] [
.B \-\^d
.I depth
] [
.B \-\^f
.I file
] [
.B \-\^i
.I file
] [
.B \-\^l
] [
.B \-\^m
.I format
] [
.B \-\^X
.I option
] [
.B \-\^v
] function
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.B history_admin
utility maintains the password history database used by
.BR npasswd ,
to control password reuse.
.PP
The form of history database entries is:
.RS
.sp
\fBname\fP:\fBpasswd\fP,\fBtime-stamp\fP:.\ .\ .:\fBpasswd\fP,\fBtime-stamp\fP:
.TP
.B name
Is the user name.
.TP
.B passwd\fP,\fBtime-stamp
The encrypted password and the time the password was entered into the database.
There can be multiple such items in a history entry.
.PP
This utility should be run as root, or by the user who owns the history
database.  Creation of a new database may require root privileges.
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\^a " time"
Set the password history age limit to
.I age
days.
A setting of 0 disables the age limit.
.TP
.BI \-\^c " file"
Use configuration file
.I file 
instead of \fInpasswd-lib\fP/\fBpasswd.conf\fP.
.TP
.BI \-\^d " depth"
Set the old password retention limit to 
.IR depth .
A setting of 0 disables the depth limit.
.TP
.BI \-\^f " file"
Path to the history database.  If 
.B file
is 
.B '@'
then the default database path is used.
.TP
.BI \-\^i " file"
Input data.  Standard input is read if no input file is given.
.TP
.B \-\^l
Log errors with
.IR syslog (3).
.TP
.BI \-\^m " format"
Select database format.
.RS
.TP
.I file
History is stored in a text file.
.TP
.I dbm
History is stored in a DBM database.  This is the default
if the NDBM library is available.
.RE
.TP
.BI \-\^X " option"
Set special options:
.RS
.TP
.BI D n
Set internal debug level to
.IR n .
See the "Command line options" section in the
\fINpasswd Reference Manual\fP for the available debugging levels.
.TP
.BI h
Print help text.
.TP
.BI V
Print version information.
.RE
.TP
.B \-\^v
Verbose.
.TP
function
Select maintenance function.
.RS
.TP
.I dump
Dumps the database to standard output.
.TP
.I load
Reads history records (of the form described above)
from the input and populates the database.
.TP
.I merge
Reads history records (of the form described above)
from the input and merges them into the database.
.TP
.I purge
Cleans the database of old and excess passwords:
.RS
.IP \(bu
Removes entries for users who are not in the password file.
.IP \(bu
Removes passwords which are too old.  This limit is set in the 
.B npasswd
configuration file, but can be overridden by the
.B \-\^a
option.
.IP \(bu
Removes excess passwords.  There is a limit to how many passwords
are kept for each user.
The limit is set in the
.B npasswd
configuration file, but can be overridden by the
.B \-\^d
option.
.RE
.RE
.PP
.B History_admin
exits with 0 status if successful, and 1 for failure.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Running a periodic database clean from 
.IR cron :
.RS
.nf
history_admin\ \-\^l\ purge\ 2>\ purge-errors
.fi
.RE
.PP
Creating the default database:
.RS
.nf
history_admin\ load <\ /dev/null
.fi
.RE
.PP
Populating alternate DBM database from a file:
.RS
.nf
history_admin\ \-\^m\ dbm\ \-\^f\ /tmp/new-history\ -i\ test-data\ load
.fi
.RE
.PP
Removing a user from the default database:
.RS
.nf
history_admin\ dump\ |\ grep\ \-\^v\ "^username:"\ |\ history_admin\ load
.fi
.RE
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 5
Config file error '\fBfilename\fP' line \fBn\fP; \fImessage\fP
An error was encountered in the configuration file.  
.TP 5
Database error file '\fBfilename\fP' method '\fBwhat\fP' error '\fImessage\fP'
A bad database path or method was specified on the command line.
.TP 5
No history database
The history mechanism has been disabled in the configuration file or
the history database is missing.
.TP 5
Unknown function '\fBwhat\fP'
An unknown function was given.
.TP 5
No memory for .\ .\ .
Temporary memory allocation failed.
.TP 5
Cannot make temp file '\fBfilename\fP', error \fIerrno\fP
Failure to create database temporary file.
.TP 5
Cannot make DBM '\fBfilename\fP'
Failure to create DBM database.
.TP 5
History purge errors - new database left in '\fBfilename\fP'
An error was encountered in purging the history.   The database was
left unchanged.
.TP 5
History load/merge errors - new database left in '\fBfilename\fP'
A serious error was encountered doing a database create or merge.
.TP 5
DBM \fIdelete|replace|insert\fP for \fBuser\fP failed
The deletion, replacment or insertion of a DBM entry failed.
.TP 5
Replace DBM '\fBfile\fP' failed
A serious error was encountered loading a DBM dataahbase.
.SH FILES
@NPASSWD-HIST@ \- the default history database
.SH BUGS
Undoubtedly there are more bugs than have already been noted
(and fixed).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
npasswd(1),
checkpassword(3)
.br
\fINpasswd Reference Manual\fP
.SH AUTHOR
Clyde Hoover
.br
Academic Computing Services and Instructional Technology Services
.br
The University of Texas at Austin
.br
c.hoover@cc.utexas.edu
.br
\(co 1998, The University of Texas at Austin. All rights reserved. 
'\"
'\" End history_admin.1
