'\"
'\" Copyright 1998, The University of Texas at Austin ("U. T. Austin").
'\" All rights reserved.
'\"
'\" By using this software the USER indicates that he or she has read,
'\" understood and will comply with the following:
'\"
'\" U. T. Austin hereby grants USER permission to use, copy, modify, and
'\" distribute this software and its documentation for any purpose and
'\" without fee, provided that:
'\"
'\" 1. the above copyright notice appears in all copies of the software
'\"    and its documentation, or portions thereof, and
'\" 2. a full copy of this notice is included with the software and its
'\"    documentation, or portions thereof, and
'\" 3. neither the software nor its documentation, nor portions thereof,
'\"    is sold for profit. Any commercial sale or license of this software,
'\"    copies of the software, its associated documentation and/or
'\"    modifications of either is strictly prohibited without the prior
'\"    consent of U. T. Austin.
'\"
'\" Title to copyright to this software and its associated documentation
'\" shall at all times remain with U. T. Austin. No right is granted to
'\" use in advertising, publicity or otherwise any trademark, service
'\" mark, or the name of U. T. Austin.
'\"
'\" This software and any associated documentation are provided "as is,"
'\" and U. T. AUSTIN MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES, EXPRESSED OR
'\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING THOSE OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
'\" PURPOSE, OR THAT USE OF THE SOFTWARE, MODIFICATIONS, OR ASSOCIATED
'\" DOCUMENTATION WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS, TRADEMARKS OR
'\" OTHER INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS OF A THIRD PARTY. U. T. Austin, The
'\" University of Texas System, its Regents, officers, and employees shall
'\" not be liable under any circumstances for any direct, indirect, special,
'\" incidental, or consequential damages with respect to any claim by USER
'\" or any third party on account of or arising from the use, or inability
'\" to use, this software or its associated documentation, even if U. T.
'\" Austin has been advised of the possibility of those damages.
'\"
'\" Submit commercialization requests to: Office of the Executive Vice
'\" President and Provost, U. T. Austin, 201 Main Bldg., Austin, Texas,
'\" 78712, ATTN: Technology Licensing Specialist.
'\"
'\" @(#)checkpassword.1	1.7 07/20/98 (cc.utexas.edu)
'\"
.TH checkpassword 1
.SH NAME
checkpassword \- check passwords for guessability
.SH SYNOPSIS
@NPASSWD-HOME@/checkpassword
[
.B \-\^c
file ] [
.B \-\^o
] [
.B \-\^u
uid ] [
.B \-\^XDn
] [
.B \-\^Xh
] [
.B \-\^XV
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Checkpassword
reads passwords from the standard input and subjects them to suitability tests.
It purposely does
.B not
take a password argument since process arguments are displayed by
.IR ps (1).
.PP
.I Checkpassword
reads passwords from the standard input and
\fBdoes not\fP suppress character echo.
The standard input can be redirected from a pipe or file, which facilitates
being called by a program or script.
.PP
.I Checkpassword
exits with 0 if the password was suitable. Otherwise a message is
sent to standard output and exit status is 1.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10
.B \-\^c
Take the next argument as the configuration file to read.
.I Checkpassword
uses the same configuration file as
.IR npasswd ,
ignoring directives that do not apply.
Consult the manual page for
.I npasswd
for help with the configuration directives.
.TP 10
.B \-\^o
Test one password and exit with check status.
.TP 10
.B \-\^u
Take the next argument as the user (user name or numeric uid)
to use for password checking.
This option is restricted to the super-user.
.TP 10
.BI \-\^XD N
Set internal debugging level to N.
.sp
Debug levels are:
.RS
.TP 10
none
None.
.TP 10
verbose
Mild verbosity.
.TP 10
config
Trace configuration file processing.
.TP 10
pwcheck
Trace password checking.
.TP 10
detail
More detailed tracing.
.TP 10
all
Enable all tracing.
.PP
This option may be restricted to root.
.RE
.TP 10
.B \-\^Xh
Print help message.
.TP 10
.B \-\^XV
Print version information.
.SH BUGS
.B Checkpassword
does not run with privileges, and the
.B npasswd
history database is protected from general access.
This effectively disables the \fIpassword history\fP check.
.PP
On Digital UNIX systems,
.B checkpassword
can be setgid to group 
.I auth
to access the shadow database.
.PP
See the \fINpasswd Administration Guide\fP for details. 
.SH SEE ALSO
checkpassword(3),
npasswd(1)
.SH FILES
@NPASSWD-HOME@/passwd.conf \- configuration file
.br
@NPASSWD-DICT@ \- password check dictionaries
.br
@NPASSWD-HIST@ \- password history database
.br
@NPASSWD-DOCS@/AdminGuide.html \- \fINpasswd Administration Guide\fP
.SH AUTHOR
Clyde Hoover
.br
Academic Computing Services and Instructional Technology Services
.br
The University of Texas at Austin
.br
c.hoover@cc.utexas.edu
.br
\(co 1998, The University of Texas at Austin. All rights reserved.
'\"
'\" End checkpassword.1
